---
layout: post
title: Review Of 15T Front Sprocket On YBR125
tags: motorcycle
---
I have swapped out the front sprocket of my yamaha YBR125 with a 15T sprocket. It has been a good 6 months since then, and I thought it will be great to write a review of the swap and its impact on daily riding.

With the 15T sprocket, the 4th gear provides sufficient power to reach nearly 80 km/h at around 7-8k RPM. In the words of another forumer, the 5th gear feels like "a new gear" on the YBR. The fastest I have been on the roads is 110-115km/h on the last gear at 8k RPM, but I believe it might be able to hit 120 if you red-line it.

Riding at around 7k RPM (where the bike seems to be in the sweet spot between power and torque) puts the bike nicely at 92-95km/h, slightly above the speed limit of sunny Singapore (but within range of acceptable by TeePee). 

Maintaining this band of RPM at max gear for most of my trips puts Fuel Consumption slightly behind the original 14T version (380-390km on 10L instead of 400km), but I suspect it is mostly because of my overcompensation in accelerating the bike from stationary (in order to meet the previous acceleration feel). 

Riding generally feels safer as you have access to decent torque at 60-70km/h (4th gear), a speed which many heavy vehicles travel at. Having that torque when you need it allows you to overtake quickly and with better handling than with the 14T. However, as previously mentioned, stationary pickup suffers slightly, so if you plan to do purely city-based riding with a lot of start-stops, then perhaps it will be wiser to stick to 14T. 


All in all, the 15T upgrade was great for me, because of the more-empowered 4th gear, and pretty decent crusing capabilities in the Singapore context. The drop in acceleration at low gears might give city-riders a small cause for concern, but then again, how much acceleration do you expect a 2B 4-stroke bike to give? I won't be pushing the bike to the red-line anytime soon (it's way too light to go so fast), but I will definitely be keeping the 15T and keep it humming along at its seemingly favourite RPM. 


Hope this helps!
--SeraphimX
